# Minor Groove Calculation

3DNA (Zheng et al., 2009) is used to calculate the minor groove values of DNA. It generates an output file for each coordinate file.
After calculating the minor groove values for every coordinate file, we merged the output files of two parallel MD simulations as one output file for each complex.

The raw minor groove files are:
- free_nuc.minor : Minor groove values of the free nucleosome complex obtained from equilibrated two simulations.
- sox_shl2.minor : Minor groove values of the Sox:SHL2 complex obtained from equilibrated two simulations. 
- sox_dyad.minor : Minor groove values of the Sox:dyad complex obtained from equilibrated two simulations. 
- sox_shl4.minor : Minor groove values of the Sox:SHL4 complex obtained from equilibrated two simulations. 

To plot the minor groove graphs, the minimum, maximum and mean minor groove values of each DNA index calculated by using _MG-min-max-calculation.ipynb_ script. The input files are given above and the output files are:
- free_nuc_min_max.csv 
- sox_shl2_min_max.csv 
- sox_dyad_min_max.csv 
- sox_dyad_min_max.csv 

Then, minor groove plots are generated by using _MG-plots.ipynb__ script. 
Human Sox2 transcription factor in complex with a nucleosome (pdb id:6T7B) is used as a reference structure. To compare the reference minor groove profile with the selected SHL, the reference structure indexes were updated accordingly. So, for each SHL, the minor groove profile of the reference structure was shifted. 
The reference structure files are _cryoem_shl2_min_max_only.minor_, _cryoem_dyad_min_max_only.minor_, _cryoem_shl4_min_max_only.minor_
Final output plots are:
- MG-free_nuc-equilibrated.pdf
- MG-sox_shl2-equilibrated.pdf
- MG-sox_dyad-equilibrated.pdf
- MG-sox_shl2-equilibrated.pdf

Reference: Guohui Zheng, Xiang-Jun Lu & Wilma K. Olson (2009). ‘Web 3DNA—a web server for the analysis, reconstruction, and visualization of three-dimensional nucleic-acid structures’, Nucleic Acids Res. 37 (Web Server issue), W240–W246. 
